a ceasefire deal between Israel and
Hamas has been delayed Israel's National
Security advisor says no captives held
in Gaza will be released before Friday
the deal was reached after weeks of
negotiations mediated by Qatar alongside
the United States and Egypt it also
remains unclear when the ceasefire will
actually come into effect it was
initially expected to begin on Thursday
morning prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has said said the agreement
with Hamas was a difficult but right
decision but he's made it clear he
intends to continue the war and said the
Army will use the time to prepare for
more fighting in a moment we'll speak to
Mike Hanah in Washington DC first let's
go to H salut who's in occupied East
Jerusalem so hamda Israel says the
release of hostages now won't happen
before Friday do we know the reason for
the
delay
well the Israeli government hasn't cited
an exact reason for why there is a there
is a delay in this pause the country's
National Security adviser saki hanegbi
released a statement saying that the
captives will not be released until at
least Friday at the earliest but he says
the conversations about their release
are constant and they are ongoing all
the time between government officials
now while the government has not given
an exact reason for the postponement of
the stop in the fighting there have been
several Anonymous Israeli officials
speaking to Media saying that the
fighting will not stop on Thursday an
indication that it will perhaps end on
Friday where we will see that 4-day
pause but there have been several leaks
in Israeli media saying that there are
still a couple of things that perhaps
need to be finalized that all parties
the negotiators and parties involved
have haven't fully signed off on the
deal so we cannot confirm any of this
information at this time because it has
not come from the government itself the
Israeli Prime Minister along with his
War cabinet speaking earlier in the
evening saying that this was the best
decision for Israel and that the
fighting even after the pause will
continue at full force but now as of
Thursday the question remains not if it
will be implemented but when now for the
fact amilies of the captives this delay
can't have been easy to hear about what
reaction has there been from
them there's been a lot of reaction from
the families of the captives on social
media specifically saying that they were
actually notified of this via social
media really channeling their
frustration to the public saying that
the government is not doing enough for
them I'll remind you that just a couple
of days ago the Israeli Prime Minister
along with his War cabinet met with all
of the representatives of the families
of the captives in order to give them as
much information and intelligence as he
could but it was the first time those
families had received any information
whatsoever since the beginning of the
war the frustration is mounting in
several forms they want to apply
pressure on the Israeli government
specifically on prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu we've seen constant
demonstration from them even marching
from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem ending at the
prime minister's office in hopes that it
will relay a message to him that they
are not really getting what they need
from the government so at this hour
there's a lot of reaction from those
families and all of it is seemingly
negative because they're continuously
frustrated and say that the government
is not aiding them in their fight it is
not assisting them with more information
on the captives and when it comes to
Deals like this they do want to be
informed and they're saying that they
are learning everything from leaks from
the media and not from official
government sources to them speaking
directly to them so another day of agony
really for the families of the captives
thank you for that ham Salud there for
us in occupied East Jerusalem let's turn
to alzer's Mike Hannah he joins us from
Washington DC Mike the United States
very heavily involved in coming up with
that ceasefire deal we've been hearing
that US President Joe Biden has been
speaking to a number of Middle East
leaders uh what's he been
discussing yes those conversations took
place earlier in the day before news of
this apparent delay in the ceasefire
came about however President Biden spoke
to all the parties that had been
involved in brokering this deal he spoke
to the Emir ofq thanking him for the
role that he played the critical role he
played in getting this deal closed uh
they also discussed the issue of
humanitarian Aid and the possibility
that the influx of Aid could increase in
the window on the ceasefire when it
begins then he also had a conversation
with President CeCe of Egypt uh
President Biden telling the Egyptian
president that the concept of refugees
coming into Egypt was absolutely
unacceptable the US position was that no
refugees could be pushed out of Gaza
into Egypt he and president CCE also
discussed the humanitarian Aid going
into Gaza and very importantly as well
uh discussing the terms of the ceasefire
president CeCe was Central in terms of
getting it done but also he has a major
role to play in getting the captives out
once the release begin then President
Biden also had a conversation with prime
minister Netanyahu once again the
details of the ceasefire and its
implementation were said to be discussed
uh but president Biden also discussed
with uh prime minister Netanyahu what
happens after the ceasefire the
president saying very clearly his belief
uh that Israel still has a duty to
protect innocence even while it carries
on its operations against Gaza after the
ceasefire when that ceasefire takes
place thank you for that Mike Hannah in
Washington
DC